PEP 688: Making the buffer protocol accessible in Python (#2549)
python/peps: pep-0688.rst

PEP: 688
Title: Making the buffer protocol accessible in Python
Author: Jelle Zijlstra <jelle.zijlstra@gmail.com>

> Sponsor: Jelle Zijlstra <jelle.zijlstra@gmail.com>

Reviewer: Core developers don't need sponsors
```suggestion
```

Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 23-Apr-2022
Python-Version: 3.12

Abstract
========

> This PEP proposes a mechanism to inspect in Python whether a type implements

Reviewer: Phrasing suggestion
```suggestion
This PEP proposes a mechanism within Python to inspect if a type implements
```

Author: Thanks, but I prefer the current wording here

Reviewer 2: For what its worth, I also find the current phrasing somewhat hard to parse and understand, particularly so when it is the very first sentence of the PEP's abstract and thus there isn't much in the way of context clues to easily infer the intended interpretation. What about these other options that also address the issue?

```suggestion
This PEP proposes a mechanism for Python code to inspect whether a type implements
```

```suggestion
This PEP proposes a Python-level mechanism to inspect whether a type implements
```

```suggestion
This PEP proposes a mechanism to inspect at the Python level whether a type implements
```

```suggestion
This PEP proposes a mechanism in Python to inspect whether a type implements
```

Author: Thanks, I like the first suggestion here. Just pushed that change.

the C-level buffer protocol. This allows type checkers to check for
objects that implement the protocol.

Motivation
==========

The CPython C API provides a versatile mechanism for accessing the
underlying memory of an object, the buffer protocol from :pep:`3118`.
Functions that accept binary data are usually written to accept any

> object implementing the buffer protocol. For example, as I write this,

Reviewer: Phrasing suggestion
```suggestion
object implementing the buffer protocol. For example, at the time of writing,
```

problems. It does not include all possible buffer types, and it
makes the ``bytes`` type ambiguous in type annotations. After all,
there are many operations that are valid on ``bytes`` objects, but
not on ``memoryview`` objects, and it is perfectly possible for
a function to accept ``bytes`` but not ``memoryview`` objects.
A mypy user
`reports <https://github.com/python/mypy/issues/12643#issuecomment-1105914159>`__
that this shortcut has caused significant problems for the ``psycopg`` project.

Kinds of buffers
----------------

The C buffer protocol supports 
`many options <https://docs.python.org/3.10/c-api/buffer.html#buffer-request-types>`__,
affecting strides, contiguity, and support for writing to the buffer. Some of these
options would be useful in the type system. For example, typeshed
currently provides separate type aliases for writable and read-only
buffers.

However, in the C buffer protocol, these options cannot be
queried directly on the type object. The only way to figure out
whether an object supports a writable buffer is to actually
ask for the buffer. For some types, such as ``memoryview``,
whether the buffer is writable depends on the instance:

> some instances are read-only and others are not. As such, I propose to

Reviewer: Phrasing suggestion
```suggestion
some instances are read-only and others are not. As such, we propose to
```

no backwards compatibility concerns.

However, the recommendation to remove the special behavior for
``bytes`` in type checkers does have backwards compatibility
impact on users. An `experiment <https://github.com/python/mypy/pull/12661>`__
with mypy shows that several major open source projects type
checked with mypy will see new errors if the ``bytes`` promotion
is removed. Nevertheless, the change improves overall type safety,
so we believe the migration cost is worth it.

Security Implications
=====================

None.

How to Teach This
=================

We will add notes pointing to ``types.Buffer`` to appropriate places in the
documentation, such as `typing.readthedocs.io <https://typing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
and the `mypy cheat sheet <https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/cheat_sheet_py3.html>`__.
Type checkers may provide additional pointers in their error messages. For example,
when they encounter a place where a buffer object is passed to a function that
is annotated to only accept ``bytes``, the error message could include a note suggesting
to use ``types.Buffer`` instead.

Reference Implementation
========================

> [Link to any existing implementation and details about its state, e.g. proof-of-concept.]

Reviewer: Perhaps remove the entire section until there's a reference implementation?
```suggestion
```

Author: But there is a reference implementation (after a lot of segfaults): https://github.com/python/cpython/compare/main...JelleZijlstra:typesbuffer?expand=1. I'll add a link to it.

Reviewer: Ah, sorry! I'm only slowly getting half back into things, so I may have missed discussion on this in other fora.

A

Author: No, you were right! I only just pushed that implementation. Thanks for the review, I'm applying your suggestions right now.

PEP: 688
Title: Making the buffer protocol accessible in Python
Author: Jelle Zijlstra <jelle.zijlstra@gmail.com>
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 23-Apr-2022
Python-Version: 3.12

Abstract
========

This PEP proposes a mechanism for Python code to inspect whether a

> type implements the C-level buffer protocol. This allows type

Reviewer 2: This was :+1: ed but it was also marked resolved without applying it. Was that intentional?

> type implements the C-level buffer protocol. This allows type

Author: Oops, I think I only changed the similar sentence on line 30. Changing this one now too.

> checkers to check for objects that implement the protocol.

Author: Thanks, I'll go with the first one. I don't think the second sentence is necessary.

I'm applying the changes locally and will push them when I'm done, in case I want to make more substantive edits.

Motivation
==========

The CPython C API provides a versatile mechanism for accessing the
underlying memory of an object, the buffer protocol from :pep:`3118`.
Functions that accept binary data are usually written to accept any

> object implementing the buffer protocol. For example, at the time of writing,

Author: I considered that, but we're still months away from 3.11 formally existing, and the number may change between whatever is on main now and the 3.11.0 release.

there are about 130 functions in CPython using the Argument Clinic
``Py_buffer`` type, which accepts the buffer protocol.

Currently, there is no way to inspect in Python whether an object

> implements the buffer protocol. Relatedly, the static type system

Author: Let's go with "Moreover"

makes the ``bytes`` type ambiguous in type annotations. After all,
there are many operations that are valid on ``bytes`` objects, but
not on ``memoryview`` objects, and it is perfectly possible for
a function to accept ``bytes`` but not ``memoryview`` objects.
A mypy user
`reports <https://github.com/python/mypy/issues/12643#issuecomment-1105914159>`__
that this shortcut has caused significant problems for the ``psycopg`` project.

Kinds of buffers
----------------

The C buffer protocol supports 
`many options <https://docs.python.org/3.10/c-api/buffer.html#buffer-request-types>`__,
affecting strides, contiguity, and support for writing to the buffer. Some of these
options would be useful in the type system. For example, typeshed
currently provides separate type aliases for writable and read-only
buffers.

However, in the C buffer protocol, these options cannot be
queried directly on the type object. The only way to figure out
whether an object supports a writable buffer is to actually
ask for the buffer. For some types, such as ``memoryview``,
whether the buffer is writable depends on the instance:
some instances are read-only and others are not. As such, we propose to

> support only whether a type implements the buffer protocol at

Author: Your previous suggestion was about the same sentence, adopted the wording from that one instead.

And now I need to go for a few hours; I'll push what I have so far and come back for the rest later. Thanks for the thorough review!

> support only whether a type implements the buffer protocol at

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I meant to delete that one in favor of this one before I submitted my review, but I forgot. My other one still has the issue of the repetition of "support" and its use to refer to two totally different things in the same sentence, which is potentially confusing, which this one fixes.

> support only whether a type implements the buffer protocol at

Author: Good point, pushing a version of this one.

all, not whether it supports more specific options such as
writable buffers.

Specification
=============

types.Buffer
------------

A new class ``types.Buffer`` will be added. It cannot be instantiated or
subclassed, but supports the ``__instancecheck__`` and
``__subclasscheck__`` hooks.  In CPython, these will check for the presence of the
``bf_getbuffer`` slot in the type object:

> .. code-block:: pycon

Reviewer 3: Freudian slip :)?
```suggestion
.. code-block:: python
```

Reviewer 2: Umm, [no](https://pygments.org/docs/lexers/#pygments.lexers.python.PythonConsoleLexer)...

Author: It confuses me every time I see it too :)

Reviewer 3: Ahh Python console. Cool! Didn't know that. Sorry!

Reviewer 2: Yeah, you're certainly not the first person to think it was a mistake—in fact, I'm pretty sure I did myself at some point :)

   >>> from types import Buffer
   >>> isinstance(b"xy", Buffer)
   True
   >>> issubclass(bytes, Buffer)
   True
   >>> issubclass(memoryview, Buffer)
   True
   >>> isinstance("xy", Buffer)
   False
   >>> issubclass(str, Buffer)
   False

The new class can also be used in type annotations:

.. code-block:: python

   def need_buffer(b: Buffer) -> memoryview:
       return memoryview(b)

   need_buffer(b"xy")  # ok
   need_buffer("xy")  # rejected by static type checkers

Usage in stubs

> --------------

Author: Thanks, I'll go with "stub files"

For static typing purposes, types defined in C extensions usually
require stub files, as described in :pep:`484`. In stub files,
``types.Buffer`` may be used as a base class to indicate that a
class implements the buffer protocol.

For example, ``bytes`` may be declared as follows in a stub:

.. code-block:: python

   class bytes(types.Buffer, Sequence[int]):
       def decode(self, ...): ...
       ...

The ``types.Buffer`` class does not require any special treatment
in type checkers.

Equivalent for older Python versions
------------------------------------

New typing features are usually backported to older Python versions
in the ``typing_extensions`` package. Because the buffer protocol
is accessible only in C, ``types.Buffer`` cannot be implemented

> in a pure Python package. As a temporary workaround, a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in a pure-Python package like ``typing_extensions``.
As a temporary workaround, a
```

Add missing hyphen, and make the connection with ``typing_extensions`` more explicit (it wasn't immediately obvious to me at first, since its not actually stated currently)

> ``typing_extensions.Buffer`` ABC will be provided on Python versions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``typing_extensions.Buffer`` `Abstract Base Class <Buffer ABC_>`__
will be provided on Python versions
```

Despite being used a number of times, what "ABC" stands for is never actually mentioned in this PEP, and it would seem to make sense here to link to the section describing this particular ABC in more detail.

that do not have ``types.Buffer`` available. For the benefit of
static type checkers, ``typing_extensions.Buffer`` can be used as
a base class in stubs to mark types as supporting the buffer protocol.
For runtime uses, the ``ABC.register`` API can be used to register
buffer classes with ``typing_extensions.Buffer``. When
``types.Buffer`` is available, ``typing_extensions`` should simply
re-export it.

No special meaning for ``bytes``
--------------------------------

The special case stating that ``bytes`` may be used as a shorthand
for other ``ByteString`` types will be removed from the ``typing``
documentation.
With ``types.Buffer`` available as an alternative, there is no good
reason to allow ``bytes`` as a shorthand.

> We suggest that type checkers that implement this behavior should deprecate and

Reviewer 2: Avoid double "that" and ensure it is clear that you're referring to the current behavior, not implementing new behavior specified in this PEP.

```suggestion
We suggest that type checkers currently implementing this behavior should deprecate and
```

or

```suggestion
We suggest that type checkers which currently implement this behavior should deprecate and
```

eventually remove it.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================

As the runtime changes in this PEP only add a new class, there are
no backwards compatibility concerns.

However, the recommendation to remove the special behavior for

> ``bytes`` in type checkers does have backwards compatibility
> impact on users. An `experiment <https://github.com/python/mypy/pull/12661>`__

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
``bytes`` in type checkers does have a backwards compatibility
impact on their users. An `experiment <https://github.com/python/mypy/pull/12661>`__
```

Better grammar and be more explicit that the backwards compatibility impact is only on _type checker_ users, not Python as a language.

> with mypy shows that several major open source projects type
> checked with mypy will see new errors if the ``bytes`` promotion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with mypy shows that several major open source projects that use it
for type checking will see new errors if the ``bytes`` promotion
```

Avoid awkward repetition and improve readibility

is removed. However, many of these errors can be fixed by improving
the stubs in typeshed, as already done for the
`builtins <https://github.com/python/typeshed/pull/7631>`__,
`binascii <https://github.com/python/typeshed/pull/7677>`__,

> `pickle <https://github.com/python/typeshed/pull/7678>`__ modules.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and `pickle <https://github.com/python/typeshed/pull/7678>`__ modules.
```

Fix grammar error

Author: Fixed when I added another PR to the list

Reviewer 2: Yep, noticed that—I'd thought I'd left a comment and marked this as resolved, but it must not have gone through for some reason.

> Overall, the change improves overall type safety,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Overall, the change improves type safety,
```

Avoid double "overall", "Overall the change overall".

There are a few other options to fix this, if you don't care for this one

Author: Yes, also added some more words here.

so we believe the migration cost is worth it.

Security Implications
=====================

None.

How to Teach This
=================

We will add notes pointing to ``types.Buffer`` to appropriate places in the
documentation, such as `typing.readthedocs.io <https://typing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
and the `mypy cheat sheet <https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/cheat_sheet_py3.html>`__.
Type checkers may provide additional pointers in their error messages. For example,

> when they encounter a place where a buffer object is passed to a function that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
when they encounter a buffer object being passed to a function that
```

Removing unnecessary awkward wording to simplify and clarify phrasing

is annotated to only accept ``bytes``, the error message could include a note suggesting

> to use ``types.Buffer`` instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the use of ``types.Buffer`` instead.
```

Cleaner phrasing and avoid grammatically awkward  "suggesting to use"

Reference Implementation
========================

An implementation of ``types.Buffer`` is
`available <https://github.com/python/cpython/compare/main...JelleZijlstra:typesbuffer?expand=1>`__
in the author's fork.

Rejected Ideas
==============

Buffer ABC
----------

An `earlier proposal <https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/71688>`__ suggested

> adding a ``collections.abc.Buffer`` ABC to represent buffer objects. This idea

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
adding a ``collections.abc.Buffer`` `abstract base class <https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-abstract-base-class>`__
to represent buffer objects. This idea
```

As before, might be good actually mention once what "ABC" means and link to it, in case any readers are unfamiliar

stalled because an ABC with no methods does not fit well into the ``collections.abc``
module. Furthermore, it required manual registration of buffer classes, including
those in the standard library. This PEP's approach of using the ``__instancecheck__``
hook is more natural and does not require explicit registration.
Nevertheless, the ABC proposal has the advantage that it does not require C changes,
and we are proposing to adopt a version of it in the third-party ``typing_extensions``

> package for the benefit of users of older versions of Python.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
package for the benefit of users on older Python versions.
```

Simplify the syntax a bit to make it easier to read and parse, and avoid triple "of"

Reviewer 2: Looks like you fixed this already in another commit :+1:

Open Issues
===========

Read-only and writable buffers
------------------------------

To avoid making changes to the buffer protocol itself, this PEP currently
does not provide a way to distinguish between read-only and writable buffers.
That's unfortunate, because some APIs require a writable buffer, and one of
the most common buffer types (``bytes``) is always read-only.
Should we add a new mechanism in C to declare that a type implementing the

> buffer protocol is always read-only?

Reviewer 2: Sidenote: At least at the level of static type checking, wouldn't the opposite make more sense, i.e. declaring that a type is writable, since a writable buffer is a subtype of a read-only buffer? This also follows the general principle that for the base collections, etc. e.g. `Set`, `Mapping`, `Sequence`, etc, the base type is read-only, with mutable subtypes. But I'm not a typing expert like you, and there may be other C-implementation reasons this framing makes more sense.

Author: That's a good point actually. At the Python level, I'd want a WritableBuffer subclass of Buffer that bytearray implements but bytes doesn't. I'll reword the question to point in that direction.

A mypy user
`reports <https://github.com/python/mypy/issues/12643#issuecomment-1105914159>`__
that this shortcut has caused significant problems for the ``psycopg`` project.

Kinds of buffers
----------------

The C buffer protocol supports 
`many options <https://docs.python.org/3.10/c-api/buffer.html#buffer-request-types>`__,
affecting strides, contiguity, and support for writing to the buffer. Some of these
options would be useful in the type system. For example, typeshed
currently provides separate type aliases for writable and read-only
buffers.

However, in the C buffer protocol, these options cannot be
queried directly on the type object. The only way to figure out
whether an object supports a writable buffer is to actually
ask for the buffer. For some types, such as ``memoryview``,
whether the buffer is writable depends on the instance:
some instances are read-only and others are not. As such, we propose to
expose only whether a type implements the buffer protocol at
all, not whether it supports more specific options such as
writable buffers.

Specification
=============

types.Buffer
------------

A new class, ``types.Buffer``, will be added. It cannot be instantiated or

> subclassed, but supports the ``__instancecheck__`` and

Reviewer 4: We can subclass it in stubs, as discussed below

```suggestion
subclassed at runtime, but supports the ``__instancecheck__`` and
```

In stub files, ``types.Buffer`` may be used as a base class to
indicate that a class implements the buffer protocol.

For example, ``memoryview`` may be declared as follows in a stub:

.. code-block:: python

   class memoryview(types.Buffer, Sized, Sequence[int]):
       ...

The ``types.Buffer`` class does not require any special treatment
by type checkers.

Equivalent for older Python versions
------------------------------------

New typing features are usually backported to older Python versions
in the `typing_extensions <https://pypi.org/project/typing-extensions/>`_
package. Because the buffer protocol
is accessible only in C, ``types.Buffer`` cannot be implemented
in a pure-Python package like ``typing_extensions``. As a temporary
workaround, a ``typing_extensions.Buffer``
`abstract base class <Buffer ABC_>`__ will be provided for Python versions
that do not have ``types.Buffer`` available.

For the benefit of
static type checkers, ``typing_extensions.Buffer`` can be used as
a base class in stubs to mark types as supporting the buffer protocol.
For runtime uses, the ``ABC.register`` API can be used to register

> buffer classes with ``typing_extensions.Buffer``. When

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
buffer classes with ``typing_extensions.Buffer``.

When
```

Author: More paragraph breaks, I like it

re-export it. Thus, users who register their buffer class manually
with ``typing_extensions.Buffer.register`` should use a guard to make
sure their code continues to work once ``types.Buffer`` is in the
standard library. 

No special meaning for ``bytes``
--------------------------------

The special case stating that ``bytes`` may be used as a shorthand
for other ``ByteString`` types will be removed from the ``typing``
documentation.
With ``types.Buffer`` available as an alternative, there will be no good
reason to allow ``bytes`` as a shorthand.
We suggest that type checkers currently implementing this behavior
should deprecate and eventually remove it.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================

As the runtime changes in this PEP only add a new class, there are
no backwards compatibility concerns.

However, the recommendation to remove the special behavior for
``bytes`` in type checkers does have a backwards compatibility
impact on their users. An `experiment <https://github.com/python/mypy/pull/12661>`__
with mypy shows that several major open source projects that use it
for type checking will see new errors if the ``bytes`` promotion

> is removed. However, many of these errors can be fixed by improving

Reviewer 4: "However" is used two sentences back

```suggestion
is removed. Nonetheless, many of these errors can be fixed by improving
```

Author: I just removed "However"

PEP: 688
Title: Making the buffer protocol accessible in Python
Author: Jelle Zijlstra <jelle.zijlstra@gmail.com>
Status: Draft
Type: Standards Track
Content-Type: text/x-rst
Created: 23-Apr-2022
Python-Version: 3.12

Abstract
========

This PEP proposes a mechanism for Python code to inspect whether a
type supports the C-level buffer protocol. This allows type
checkers to evaluate whether objects implement the protocol.

Motivation
==========

The CPython C API provides a versatile mechanism for accessing the
underlying memory of an object—the buffer protocol from :pep:`3118`.
Functions that accept binary data are usually written to handle any
object implementing the buffer protocol. For example, at the time of writing,

> there are about 130 functions in CPython using the Argument Clinic

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
there are around 130 functions in CPython using the Argument Clinic
```

``Py_buffer`` type, which accepts the buffer protocol.

Currently, there is no way for Python code to inspect whether an object
supports the buffer protocol. Moreover, the static type system
does not provide a type annotation to represent the protocol.
This is a `common problem <https://github.com/python/typing/issues/593>`__

> when type-annotating code that accepts generic buffers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
when adding type annotations to code that accepts generic buffers.
```

Author: Going to go with "writing type annotations for code", which I think better describes typeshed

Specification
=============

types.Buffer
------------

A new class, ``types.Buffer``, will be added. It cannot be instantiated or
subclassed, but supports the ``__instancecheck__`` and
``__subclasscheck__`` hooks.  In CPython, these will check for the presence of the
``bf_getbuffer`` slot in the type object:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> from types import Buffer
   >>> isinstance(b"xy", Buffer)
   True
   >>> issubclass(bytes, Buffer)
   True
   >>> issubclass(memoryview, Buffer)
   True
   >>> isinstance("xy", Buffer)
   False
   >>> issubclass(str, Buffer)
   False

The new class can also be used in type annotations:

.. code-block:: python

   def need_buffer(b: Buffer) -> memoryview:
       return memoryview(b)

   need_buffer(b"xy")  # ok
   need_buffer("xy")  # rejected by static type checkers

Usage in stub files
-------------------

For static typing purposes, types defined in C extensions usually
require stub files, as :pep:`described in PEP 484 <484#stub-files>`.
In stub files, ``types.Buffer`` may be used as a base class to
indicate that a class implements the buffer protocol.

For example, ``bytes`` may be declared as follows in a stub:

.. code-block:: python

>    class bytes(types.Buffer, Sequence[int]):

Reviewer 4: Hmm, does this PEP propose deprecating `typing.ByteString`? If not, surely we'd do this in typeshed, since `ByteString` inherits from `Sequence[int]` in `typing.pyi`.

```suggestion
   class bytes(types.Buffer, typing.ByteString):
```

Author: Honestly I'm not really sure what ByteString is good for. I'll use `memoryview` as an example instead.

Reviewer 4: > Honestly I'm not really sure what ByteString is good for.

I mean... neither...

Author: I guess it means "bytes or bytearray", which is a fairly useful concept.

       def decode(self, ...): ...
       ...

The ``types.Buffer`` class does not require any special treatment

> in type checkers.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
by type checkers.
```

Equivalent for older Python versions
------------------------------------

New typing features are usually backported to older Python versions
in the `typing_extensions <https://pypi.org/project/typing-extensions/>`_
package. Because the buffer protocol
is accessible only in C, ``types.Buffer`` cannot be implemented
in a pure-Python package like ``typing_extensions``. As a temporary
workaround, a ``typing_extensions.Buffer``

> `Abstract Base Class <Buffer ABC_>`__ will be provided on Python versions

Reviewer 4: The capitalisation looks a bit weird to me here. Also "on" -> "for".

```suggestion
`abstract base class <Buffer ABC_>`__ will be provided for Python versions
```

Author: Agree, https://docs.python.org/3/library/abc.html lowercases it.

Reviewer 2: I initially lowercased it, but I evidently uppercased it to signify its use later as an initialism. But its not terribly important either way.

> that do not have ``types.Buffer`` available. For the benefit of

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
that do not have ``types.Buffer`` available.

For the benefit of
```

static type checkers, ``typing_extensions.Buffer`` can be used as
a base class in stubs to mark types as supporting the buffer protocol.
For runtime uses, the ``ABC.register`` API can be used to register
buffer classes with ``typing_extensions.Buffer``. When
``types.Buffer`` is available, ``typing_extensions`` should simply

> re-export it.

Reviewer 4: Do we need to state this in the PEP? -- isn't this something of a `typing_extensions` implementation detail?

Author: This is important if people do `typing_extensions.Buffer.register(MyFancyBuffer)`. I'll put a note to make that explicit.

No special meaning for ``bytes``
--------------------------------

The special case stating that ``bytes`` may be used as a shorthand
for other ``ByteString`` types will be removed from the ``typing``
documentation.

> With ``types.Buffer`` available as an alternative, there is no good

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
With ``types.Buffer`` available as an alternative, there will be no good
```

reason to allow ``bytes`` as a shorthand.
We suggest that type checkers currently implementing this behavior
should deprecate and eventually remove it.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================

As the runtime changes in this PEP only add a new class, there are
no backwards compatibility concerns.

However, the recommendation to remove the special behavior for
``bytes`` in type checkers does have a backwards compatibility
impact on their users. An `experiment <https://github.com/python/mypy/pull/12661>`__
with mypy shows that several major open source projects that use it
for type checking will see new errors if the ``bytes`` promotion
is removed. However, many of these errors can be fixed by improving

> the stubs in typeshed, as already done for the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
the stubs in typeshed, as has already been done for the
```

`builtins <https://github.com/python/typeshed/pull/7631>`__,
`binascii <https://github.com/python/typeshed/pull/7677>`__,
`pickle <https://github.com/python/typeshed/pull/7678>`__, and
`re <https://github.com/python/typeshed/pull/7679>`__ modules.
Overall, the change improves type safety and makes the type system
more consistent, so we believe the migration cost is worth it.

> Security Implications
> =====================
> 
> None.
> 
> 

Reviewer 4: This may just be me being a PEP reviewer noob, but: do we need this section at all if there are 0 security implications? Other typing PEPs don't seem to have it.

```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: I'd think so, since it actually explicitly states such, rather than leaving the reader to hopefully assume that by the fact that it wasn't addressed.

How to Teach This
=================

> We will add notes pointing to ``types.Buffer`` to appropriate places in the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
We will add notes pointing to ``types.Buffer`` in appropriate places in the
```

Reviewer 2: This doesn't fully solve the problem, since now "in" is repeated twice rather than "to", which is still potentially confusing and hard to read. It seems like I can't make a suggestion here, but what about something like 

```rst
We will add notes pointing to ``types.Buffer`` in appropriate places throughout the
```

documentation, such as `typing.readthedocs.io <https://typing.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`__
and the `mypy cheat sheet <https://mypy.readthedocs.io/en/stable/cheat_sheet_py3.html>`__.

> Type checkers may provide additional pointers in their error messages. For example,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Type checkers may also provide additional pointers in their error messages. For example,
```

Author: Feel like that's redundant with "additional"

Reviewer 4: Yeah fair, feel free to ignore this one then!

when they encounter a buffer object being passed to a function that
is annotated to only accept ``bytes``, the error message could include a note suggesting
the use of ``types.Buffer`` instead.

Reference Implementation
========================

An implementation of ``types.Buffer`` is
`available <https://github.com/python/cpython/compare/main...JelleZijlstra:typesbuffer?expand=1>`__
in the author's fork.

Rejected Ideas
==============

Buffer ABC
----------

An `earlier proposal <https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/71688>`__ suggested
adding a ``collections.abc.Buffer``
`abstract base class <https://docs.python.org/3/glossary.html#term-abstract-base-class>`__
to represent buffer objects. This idea
stalled because an ABC with no methods does not fit well into the ``collections.abc``
module. Furthermore, it required manual registration of buffer classes, including
those in the standard library. This PEP's approach of using the ``__instancecheck__``
hook is more natural and does not require explicit registration.

> Nevertheless, the ABC proposal has the advantage that it does not require C changes,
> and we are proposing to adopt a version of it in the third-party ``typing_extensions``
> package for the benefit of users of older Python versions.

Reviewer 4: Split into two paragraphs (and one sentence into two sentences)

```suggestion

Nevertheless, the ABC proposal has the advantage that it does not require C changes.
This PEP proposes to adopt a version of it in the third-party ``typing_extensions``
package for the benefit of users of older Python versions.
```
